Vehicle technology has been rapidly evolving, especially in braking and sensing systems, to enhance transportation efficiency and safety. Modern braking technology and collision avoidance systems equipped in vehicles have reduced the number of accidents resulting in severe damage, injury, and even death. Internet of Things, it has also been widely utilized in transportation systems to monitor vehicles and their surroundings to minimize accidents caused by over speeding and poor braking. An automatic braking system is an intelligent mechatronic system that incorporates various sensors to ensure car safety. The incorporation of various sensors in automobile safety systems can significantly reduce the number of accidents caused by driver error and poor braking. The automatic braking system can send an alert to drivers to reduce speed, and ultrasonic sensors can detect the critical distance between the vehicle and the car in front to automatically reduce speed. An accident happen due to periodic non-maintenance of the vehicle, health issues of the driver, or engaging the vehicle in a stationary position. However, automobile accidents are still the leading cause of injuries and death in most countries. Necessary car safety features are incorporated to protect passengers from injury and death during a collision. The automatic braking system equipped with ultrasonic sensors, along with temperature and electrochemical sensors, can detect critical distances, toxic gases, and temperature changes to reduce accidents caused by driver error and poor braking.
